Fantastic, where does this move on,
all right?
I'm ready, are you ready?
All right, so, there's a common saying in
interviews, just use a HashMap, right?
I think Joma Tech even did it.
Again, this the second
time I represent him.
He always does these shorts, and
one of them was HashMap, right?
Prepares for an interview for
a month, right,
when the person asks a question
his answer is HashMaps, right?
It's just always the answer.
So what are maps?
It's too easy for us to think of
either squirrely braces or new map and
just assume we know what they are, right?
That's what we do.
The reality is,
we probably know how to use them,
we probably don't know
what they actually are.
And more so,
this is not even a map, right?
That's not a map, it's an object that has
different properties associated with it.
So, just things to think about,
everything's a little bit different.
So we are gonna go through, and
we are actually going to
explain what a map actually is.
So here's some terms first.
There's the load factor.
That's the amount of data points versus
the amount of storage that we have, yeah?
Yeah, so
if we had seven items in our map, and
we had ten available units of storage,
we'd have a load factor of 0.7.
A key, a key is the thing
that is hashable, right?
We use the key to create something
in which we can access our value.
A value of course is the thing
that's associated with the key,
and a collision is when two
keys map to the same cell.
Okay, there we go,
we've made some progress.
All right, so
let's whiteboard all these things.
This is where things get kind of fun cuz
we're kind of finally done with this whole
graph.
Everything's a LinkedList,
everything's a graph kind of section.
We're kind of just into something new.
Actually, joke's on you,
it's an ArrayList.
All right, so again,
we're back down to an ArrayList.
Somehow these foundational structures that
we discussed just keep coming back up.
They're inside of a heap.
We use a heap inside of
Dijkstra's shortest path.
We are now on to Maps,
guess what, ArrayList, right?
It always keeps on being the same thing,
always down.
So effectively how a Map works is that, we
have a key and it needs to map to value.
And what the key is mapping
to a value has to be,
is a consistent hash, consistent hash.
All right, so what this means is that
when I give case of 0, right, some key,
that is uniquely defined, it will
always gimme the same answer back out.
If it doesn't gimme the same answer
back out, that's an inconsistent hash.
What is it good for?
Absolutely nothing.
Okay, that's great song.
But, so now what we have to do is,
we have to come up with a way to hash.
Now, JavaScript is particularly difficult
when it comes to creating these
structures, because we can
take say a string, and
walk through every character in the string
and create a hash from the string, right?
We can have a number and use the number
as a way to kind of create a hash for
the string.
But what we don't have is an object.
If you just hand me an object, I can't
create some sort of unique identifier for
that object in the sense that if you
create an object that's like foo:5,
right, my goodness, great five.
Now let's say foo:3, and
we'll call this thing const F, right?
And then you create another one, t,
and it has the exact same value.
You can't tell the difference
of that in JavaScript, right,
you don't have a way to be able to say,
hey, object, what's your unique ID?
And in Java you do, you can call like
get hash ID, or get some sort of ID to
the object in which produces a unique
identifier for that specific object.
This may have changed in JavaScript.
But last time I checked, this is not
a thing, someone can prove me wrong.
I'm sure there's someone that
could probably prove me wrong, but
I'm quite positive you just can't uniquely
identify objects in this sort of sense.
You can only uniquely identify them based
on properties and their associated values.
So if you have two with the identical,
good luck.
Which means that our key lookup really
breaks down in this case, right?
Because you could actually have two
separate objects that are meant to be two
separate objects, but
mapped to the same value.
So for our case if we do implement one,
we'll simply just use strings or numbers
as our entrance into it, which I don't
think we're gonna actually implement one.
So, let's just talk about how this works.
So, we can do something like this,
is that we need a hashing function, right,
that takes in the key and needs to produce
out some sort of unique number, right?
And this is the important part,
is that we need a number.
And the reason why is,
let's just say k comes in and
it returns out some great number,
and it can be a really big number.
It can be a really small number if
there's not anything specific to it.
Then what we can do is, we can take it,
and we can modulo it based on say,
the length of our data storage,
right, so say 10.
And what that means is that if
we have a 10-item data, okay,
say we have this many items, I realized
I can't count as fast as I can, right?
That means our key, whatever we give it,
can uniquely map to one of the bins
inside of our array structure.
And we can just say, hey,
we'll store the key plus the value
inside of that structure right there.
Then we map another one which say,
goes over here, and
then we put the key and the value.
But every now and then,
you're gonna map two very different keys.
And since we say only have ten slots,
the chance of them colliding is uniformal.
If they uniformly go to any number, it
would be a chance of one over ten, right?
It wouldn't be that great.
So if you had a perfectly
uniform hash generator,
you get a 10% chance of collision.
Which means that what
happens when we collide here?
Well, we need a way to
be able to store both.
Now when I went to college, I know,
I can't believe I'm saying
this whippersnappers.
What we used to do, at least how I learned
it is that you'd actually do something
called linear or exponential back off.
Meaning we would literally go down to
the next slot and put it in there.
And we always store the key with
the value, and we'll see why on retrieval.
Which means that if you did this,
you will fill up more and more slots.
So as things become less and
less efficient, or more and more full,
you're gonna need a larger amount of
storage with a smaller amount of load
factor to prevent collisions, right?
Cuz the moment you have five items in
here, the chance of you hitting it and
then having to linearly go down gets
greater, and greater, and greater.
So in more modern ways or
what I've seen is that,
instead you use a list underneath
the hood to be able to add in items.
So you have an ArrayList,
that has an ArrayList,
that can add an items and
then we just walk the ArrayList.
Sounds good.
We could technically also use a LinkedList
underneath the hood because you do
linearly walk it every single time.
And so long as the keys sufficiently
map to a bunch of them,
what we're gonna see is little sub
amounts with only just one item in it.
Maybe sometimes two, right?
Long as you have a good hashing function,
you're gonna have very few.
So how does retrieval work?
Well, we go through our magical
hashing function, right?
We pass in a key, we go through a hashing
function and produces an index, we then
modulo that with the size of our storage
area, and we now have an item into it.
Well, the problem is,
is there could be multiple items inside
of any one storage unit, correct?
So that's why we store
the key plus the value.
We can use our key and say hey key,
are you equal to that key?
You're the same key?
Well guess what, that's your associated
value then, get on out, right?
We can actually do that and get it on out,
and we can use that specific value.
It's a little bit tricky, but then as you
think about it becomes really simple.
Maps tend to be pretty simple creations,
and that's really all you're doing.
Deletion, exact same thing, you go to
that spot within your ArrayList, you find
the associated key with the value, remove
it from the entry, and there you go.
You now have it removed,
of course you have to decrement length.
But there is always one problem.
So, I believe the ideal load
factor is 0.7 at this point.
That's kind of what I believe is
considered the ideal one long as you do
this ArrayLists or
this LinkedList style storing.
If you do that,
once you exceed that load factor,
we need a way to be able to redo this,
right?
So something we can do is that,
we can take our current data storage,
what it is, and we can iterate through
all of the keys that we can find.
And then we can rehash them and
restore them into a larger storage arena,
thus cutting down our load factor,
say by half if we double the storage, and
then we have a bunch more
in which we can store.
And this is the effective way in
which maps operate on systems.
There we go,
they're not actually all that complicated,
they're actually
surprisingly uncomplicated.
It's actually surprisingly boring,
kind of, it doesn't feel that cool.
But now that you know what ArrayLists are
and LinkedLists, this is very, very easy.
If you didn't know those two terms,
this might be a bit harder to kind
of understand how this works.
So an ArrayList allows you to kind
of just simply increase the length.
But usually you just use raw arrays
underneath the hood, and then double
the size when you need to or increase the
size by 50%, whatever you think is good.
Always a trade off between how much do you
want to store versus how efficient you
want to be with memory.
So it's always a game.
That's why often you'll see maps
come with some sort of capacity.
Because they want you to give them
the hint of how big we should be so
that way the storage and
retrieval is as efficient as possible.
Cuz the more amount of collisions,
the less o of one it is.
And so why is it o of one?
Well, we assume that,
again, the key has some sort of
length that is not infinity, right?
You're not storing large
text files as the key.
Instead, you're storing some small string,
right?
You could hash a text file, and then boom,
you have this key that you use
all the time to get that value.
That's kind of how the internet works.
You do those kind of things, it has
some sort of hash associated with it.
You don't store gigantic pieces of data,
you still have small things
that point to other things.
And then usually the thing you point
to is actually the big thing, so
we assume hashing takes over one.
I'm sure there's a great proof out
there that says, this is why it is.
And so therefore, we have this.
And we only have to do that
plus accessing the data, and
then going through
a relatively small amount.
So long as our collisions don't
gather up into one single point,
you will always have
effectively one item in there,
two items in there,
also again considered constant.
And so
that's why it has a constant lookup time.
There was a pretty funny bug that somebody
found that some high performance piece of
code, no one could figure out how to
make it fast in this one condition.
And someone went through and
looked at the buckets of the map.
And effectively all the keys somehow were
just mapping to this one bucket cuz they
had a bad hashing algorithm.
And that caused this one thing to just
operate at linear time when you assumed it
was operating at constant time.
And it was just super slow when
it should have been super fast.
And a simple change improve the speed of
the program by an enormous amount of time.
And so maps can be quite tricky.
In JavaScript land, of course you get
zero understanding of what's happening
underneath the hood, right?
You have no idea you are in
an abstract land, and
you just hope that it's well implemented.
The people who made the V8 are clearly so
talented they created a engine that
can run a slow language swiftly.
So they probably did it right,
I assume they did it right.
And yeah, that's my argument for
why this happens.
So yeah, that's really all a map is.
I didn't really wanna implement one,
I think it's kinda boring.
Plus we don't really have the tools we can
to really implement it well in JavaScript.
So we're just gonna move on.